well boy do we have a great show for you
tonight that's right it is hot line
League Time episode 22 is here we're
filming this on Monday night at 8 p.m.
we've finally returned to our regularly
scheduled programming hour after
flirting with some earlier times and
doing some stuff in Miami now we're back
we're back at the regular time you're
here you're watching live unless you're
watching the vaad in which case what are
you doing
you should watch like whatever we're
gonna get of the showdown hotline League
is brought to you by open by HP brought
a lot of energy for the start of that I
think I think that we're cooked what
what say you pooped is that like all all
the energy you got for the show today oh
okay yes am I tired or are you pooped
well I just try to keep it classy we
didn't do a good chance before the start
of the show of having twitch chat tell
us about audio levels so please tell me
if there's any audio levels we any audio
levels yeah just let us know are there
audio levels if there's no audio levels
we've got some problems
I'm joined of course at the honestly
onset of this episode by Mark Zimmerman
my constant co-host how's it goin mark
great there's been no new developments
in my life No okay tell because you even
see the crazy shit that happened with
mark
it's the biggest time to break talk
about that a second okay
Colby how you been I've been I've been
great it was nice seeing you hanging out
this weekend Travis yeah yeah I'm super
good very good very good yeah I mean you
you want to talk about what you do and
we'll go to Mark's life that part that
land party I didn't anyway so we had
yeah we had my 30th birthday celebration
we rented a house down in a San Luis
Obispo
Travis was there Hunter was there Nick
was there cuz Pismo B was there yeah
yeah but Pismo Beach is like in San Luis
Obispo isn't it and yeah I think so well
like it's very close proximity it's in
the county
we want to get technical in that way but
yeah we rent a house we did a land set
up we consumed a lot of food and other
good stuff and yeah there was a lot of
fun you told me those were regular
mushrooms coming uh it was it was a lot
of fun I had a great time we played
video games do not stream much because
people they don't appreciate being
streamed when they're not in their right
mind apparently it was really person but
that's okay cRIO no there were two
people two old men oh okay gotcha oh
yeah
but either way I had a great time so
Kelly and Mark got fired this is what
this is what the internet says we are
the offline TV thing but it's I you got
fired or you know that's the way people
are characterizing it which i think is a
mischaracterization it's because so I
mean it is a slightly complicated
situation because it was just done so on
professionally I guess oh this is some
good stuff I'm excited like so Josh
tweeted he got fired or let go whatever
and then back post makes it sound like I
did which technically in some sense I
did but then again not at all so like
the whole thing's just a mess because I
had a meeting last Monday and basically
they put a they told it was like a not
necessarily proposal but like you're
alright with this right and then like
what they were proposing he was not
being followed at all so I was like this
is bullshit kind of and then I got let
go for not agreeing to that and then the
house and the talent were not alright
with that and so they tried to ask me
back after some like revisions and
structure changes but at that point I
was like I'm I'm done with this it's a
great creative differences with the
leadership craze maybe the way that
showed Josh said but the problem with
the creative differences it actually had
a knock-on effect of people
misunderstanding that because IRL was
the catalyst
for a lot of stuff that went wrong
because it blew up and people started
losing their minds and making bad
decisions but no one was but if you say
creative differences people feel like it
was like we didn't want I or L or there
was like arguments about YouTube versus
IRL when in reality there was never like
any competition between the two is just
like what to do with the IRL stuff and
bad decisions around that that then
highlighted problems so like if you say
creative differences unfortunately it
feels like people interpret that to mean
like arguments over IRL when in reality
the problem was not IRL yeah hmm
generally speaking I think everyone's
supposed to be very vague about what
happens in these situations but I feel
like everyone's being too transparent
you think people are being well just
unlike like generally like if in any a
normal company the employee leaves and
they just say hey I'm no longer working
here and the company doesn't really say
anything and whatever and now it's
become like I'm not criticizing you I'm
just saying it's just the most eSports
thing in the world where now there's
like Twitter posts about all the reasons
and it to be fair like I know a lot of
people initially worked it's like well
why did Josh have to do an AMA but as
someone who is a public figure quote
unquote who's gonna stream and have a
community who wants questions I think
streamers yeah do have a responsibility
to be a little bit more transparent and
that has a knock-on effect with me who I
wouldn't say I'm a streamer in
necessarily quite a bit you know yeah
but I am a personality I am somewhat
forward-facing and especially after
having so many personal difficulties
with it I did want I felt like I was
gonna have to say something and I didn't
want to come out there and just say like
the what I initially typed up which was
a nice like hey guys thanks for having
me wore a lot of hats like my tweet was
with all I was initially gonna say but
after the the week of events that
transpired and after the initial Monday
meeting I I just typed up a longer thing
and I cleared it with them like I I
showed it to their management I cleared
it with the talent like I I tried to
to make it transparent without pointing
to specific instances or people while
also making it so people would be
comfortable with it yeah I understand it
probably didn't come across perfectly
either but there's no perfect solution
there well it's almost been a year since
I was laid off and that worked out
splendidly I now have a patreon sitting
at 39 our bucks month I mean but I
assume your primary source of revenue
was the riot stuff or was it not oh yeah
it's hot line League Kelby
I barely made dick from a from offline
TV like okay I didn't care about the
money
sure okay it's not like a financial blow
in any way right he's got Highline
League supporting him the core backbone
the amount of money I pour into his bank
account every month Kelby well I mean
those are $7,000 glasses he's wearing
right now you know these are actually
see you League the offline salary was
getting him those Ravens hi I'm Wade
ladder than Kelby the mark this is what
I asked or you know you know you're fine
all right that guy is their audio levels
everyone says turn with the levels I
asked everyone for this so then no one
says shit fucking beast Travis
hello is this better Twista are you guys
like you spent 10 minutes before the
show producing it live on air and we
still we still don't have a beach yeah
you can only say how are you yeah not as
good in the past couple of years as well
all right well look the amount of
support I've been seeing from twitch
chat for mark it's beautiful and that's
why this is going to be the what should
mark do next episode all our calls will
be about Mark's next job I already have
shit moving mark is desperate for work
inspiration if you guys can call and you
give us an idea any kind words you want
to say them if you've been in a similar
situation before where a streaming
houses ideal let you down so less less
nice things fat cats Cara just trying to
take that you for everything you're
worth Barca I know that the burger came
really close to my apartment is hiring
if you know you wanted to come up what's
your address just so I know roughly
where to go
I live on Beloit in Santa Monica oh yeah
I can't remember my exact number maybe
just hang out the homeless people for a
little while look at you yeah all right
was this better everyone can we all be
happy now with the audio levels I hope
so alright are we gonna start this
fucking show I've been waiting he'd like
we had to address the elephant in the
room that was that is not an elephant in
the room yeah that's the elephant on
Twitter the greatest scandal to hit
hotline League in years it's mark I've
been meaning to tell you this but
Kelby and I've been talking and we've
agreed to fire Josh actually he's the
greatest scandal what was the name of
that guy who came on and said Watergate
and wanted to call me out on clutch cuz
I want that guy back on I want him to
call in for this episode I mean he
didn't believe in clutch first playoffs
I think did we watch his performance
didn't we ask him back there of that you
know you know I thought was super
interesting is that so like Sebastian
was on your guys show in Miami right
talking about their expectations for
echo fox yeah yeah yeah how they were
how he thought that they were gonna
three oh I thought that it was really
interesting however that in the echo Fox
series he decide
to send up his social media staff
instead of his team to play that series
because that was the worst performance
I've seen by clutch only matched by
their social media content so I it
couldn't have been the players up on
stage I like that joke it was convoluted
I'm not sure you had twitch a fall on
you with it but yeah I could I could
have done the wording better but Kobe's
not a fan of their social media which is
like it there well there's social media
issue was not it was not great at the
start of the split but they hired
somebody later and then they got way
better yeah way better
all right I want to just point something
out hey Mark do you want to I want to
point out one thing really quick all
right so clutch gaming which is an LCS
team has been in the league for a full
split made it all the way to Miami has
less Twitter followers than me
how about YouTube follow how about
YouTube subs I don't have a youtube so I
hope they're beating me there listen
he'll be start what up you got it 976
people ready to press that sub button
Kelby the amount has been I haven't
worked for an eSports team in three and
a half years he'll be he'll be there's
no need to just show how much promotion
I've been able to give you over these
past couple years I am the only thing
keeping you relevant to ATF is my
relevancy to EE
alright mark let's take some calls all
right how this works absolutely if you
guys have not seen this show before we
have a discord that josh is on the trap
chat and says you guys can't fire me
fuck you all so let's hold Josh we fired
him from the show okay sorry must have
gotten told
hey if if josh is streaming right now
sotl Travis on Twitch it's a way better
show way better stream mark sonic hell
B's on it I don't know who Josh is come
come watch the real content right here
I'm sorry go ahead
so
I was saying and I'm spamming again cuz
I think it probably got pushed out in
twitch ad right now I'm putting in the
discord link you need to join this
discord and then there's gonna be
general voice Channel and everyone will
need to go in there you can kind of meet
yourself once you're in there and then
in the general text channel you're gonna
put your takes and I'll be reading those
going through them and pulling people
into the waiting room for once they like
you'll go through a short microphone
check and then we'll bring you on air
for this episode I think Travis are
talking about going back and looking at
some of our favorite least favorite
moments kind of like a seat a split
recap kind of thing so anything that you
guys felt like you really didn't like
really well yeah what do you think
there's been good in the LCS so far what
do you dislike I mean I asked I asked
chopper this question in the interview
what do you think was good about
franchising now looking back at it what
do you think has been an issue and I
think overall like obviously that's kind
of the general theme of this but I think
the nice thing is about weeks like this
where there hasn't been as much news
people can call in and say all sorts of
stuff you know they can talk about a
bunch of different thing that they feel
so if you've got some idea for something
I don't or just feel free to drop it
yeah and once again please try to be a
little bit more descriptive of what your
actual take is things that say like I
want to talk about the the league scene
this is not gonna get you pulled all
right we're getting Mike spam I'm
already dropping them into the waiting
room so Mike spam by the way some if you
are sub you get to go to the sub chat
where you can put your question and I'm
more likely you'll get picked but I see
something there I'm going to yell at
them so anyway but yeah that's how the
show works you call in we talk about
stuff it's great a couple of shout outs
while Mark is pulling questions I want
to shout out radical bread subd rummy
cake for the 500 bits it sarah's sub
Christabel Reece up says hi it's Sarah's
gifted us up to Eisley who subbed dr.
Manhattan 18 says can we spam omen by HP
in the chat Thank You dr. Manhattan very
nice of you to support the sponsors
really really appreciate that
c-chief fairest only had about its calc
4:03 says hey Travis just wanted to say
you're awesome and that five
hundred bits only cost one dollar for
the first buy if anyone wants to support
transit street they're running a
promotion right now for one dollar you
can send me fine I don't have a I'm not
partnered or anything can you send that
to me instead without having partnership
branding no coulis thirty-three subs or
sorry sent bits and says did we win did
you hit on black and Vegas I donated to
the fund no I lost money in Vegas not
that much because I spend my cut money
on content but we're doing okay I'm
gonna go talk to these guys okay
smell SAP nine one seven recept resub
says here the man dog the serializer
subbed exams ER sent five hundred bits
and says doting to help mark find a new
job fund I'll tell mark that whenever he
gets back I really like that that's good
it's nice Travis what the hell what what
Mike spams I can't believe you want to
have him on for this one yeah well I
want to show how wrong he is by the way
before we get to Micra have just you
know somebody sent 500 bits and says
it's for the mark getting a new job fund
so thank you to calc or sorry thank you
to to zun's er hello Mike spam where you
come from I'm going to Seattle tomorrow
night what for
I'm gonna hang out with Bonnie and Peter
sex so and if this if this gets heated
we can we can take it to fist and I'll
beat you up is what I mean it my expand
what do you what do you want to talk
about well I'm here because I'm excited
for MSI and I don't care that it's at
the Emmet it's at the EU LCS studio I
think that's just as fine as anywhere
else as well it could be anywhere else
and you'd be equally excited I could
have yeah yeah Berlin studio I
personally don't care really where these
events are held what if it was an
these tournaments are really forgettable
as an Internet viewer in terms of
location why what if it was only an
online-only tournament
I really wouldn't care okay like in
terms of the viewing experience
yeah you will your viewing experience
fair so you if you don't like in person
you wouldn't care about the in-person
interviews or anything like that not
really I mean I've been watching League
for seven years now at this point it all
just kind of blends together and I just
care about the games so my question for
you on that is how much that is because
they have had most important
international competitions in serious
venues I mean did you feel like the
all-star event that was at the na LCS
was less hype than some of the other
things that have happened yes but that
was because of the event itself not so
much the venue will find that one out
did you could you like were you
impressed at all whenever you saw like
the dragon fly in - oh yeah it's
definitely impressive and it's
definitely cool to see but as a viewer
that's not really why I remember those
tournaments me personally what the the
thing that I really appreciate about
having a significant live audience is
background noise like crowd cheering and
big exciting place happen like when I
think back on like some of the biggest
events in league history or I I don't
know like the plays the individual
moments to stand out to me the most
there's always like you know some sort
of crowd cheer in the background and I
think that that helps also energize
player reactions in caster you know I
don't know Marc can probably speak to
the faster reactions definitely player
reactions I'm not sure I'd agree with
that one I mean nobody I can see
argument you're making yeah I mean in
talking to players most the time not all
the time but most of the time players
feel like the stakes are way higher it
empowers them they feel incredible when
they walk out onto a stage inside of a
massive arena so imagine you just played
imagine you just played in a massive
arena to win your split finals and it's
like congratulations you've now
qualified to go to the EU LCS studio
pink Pete in front of a couple hundred
people and maybe you get a chance to
play in the spring they sorry the finals
at location the semifinals location in
Paris but like you go from this massive
arena that that has allowed you to
qualify into play at the studio at the
best example this by the way is the who
like the EU LCS situation where that
team is gonna go or just won an eel and
Europe their massive arena fnatic now
goes back to their studio to compete
like you've just qualified to go to the
studio to compete
does that not feel weird to you oh it
feels weird but just the event itself I
don't care yeah so I would say you know
the crux is argument it's not that some
of this stuff isn't hype or that players
shouldn't care just for him he doesn't
think it matters all that much to a lot
of the people viewing online right
exactly or say a hundred percent
personal you don't care I would guess
that these super casual people it
impacts the most I think the more League
you watch through the year the less the
venue actually matters see I feel like
the venue echoes out across everything
so the casters are gonna get more hype
the players are gonna feel like
everything's more impactful you'll get
bigger reactions out of them when they
win or they make a big play because they
know that they're doing it in front of
this huge arena when they walk out and
like the guest
being this is just for the group-stage
though well it's for the plans and the
group-stage which is the vast majority
of this event and but those games have
always been forgivable
that's my hottest stake here I mean I
don't know if I would agree with that
yeah I don't think I agree with that
considering a lot of the region's best
teams get knocked out in the stages the
group stages of these so like TSM in
North America streams are only sometimes
group stages stage games would you say
are really that high P I would say like
TSM walking in rising Jason losing again
in 2016 was pretty memorable or like
running into Viktor with double F was
pretty memorable for any fans so I'm not
quite sure I agree with this statement
I mean gigabyte Marines whenever they
show up is pretty fun like there's I
think there are a lot of memorable
moments I don't know like for me so this
might be the case for you and it's fine
if you are only interested in like what
you're seeing whenever the games are
happening but for me like I it's
interesting so I did that video about
the venue size situation it's been
getting warmer views as time goes on and
I'm actually really interested because I
think by Dave day three day four day
five of the group stage when especially
if one of the major regions doesn't make
it out and they realize like oh wait our
team only played in the EU LCS studio
the whole time like that's gonna feel
bad like imagine if you doesn't make it
out of group stage well you know
whatever people can say like oh yeah of
course they are they're not or what just
imagine a world where they flop for some
reason and they don't make it our group
stage that team will have gone like EU
will have had an international
tournament in its their own region and
will have only competed in their their
own arena so I don't know I think it's
it's it's hard for me to hear that like
it doesn't really matter I understand
that if you're only interested in the
games and yeah like what's happening on
the rift is what's happening on the red
regardless of if it's met in a massive
arena or elsewhere but I think this is
the type of thing that has like massive
ripple effects across the entire event
and I think I think people are gonna be
pretty upset about it so there is one
less hot thing I will say that's a bit
less baby which is I think riot should
do a better job and I think they've
dropped the ball pretty massively on
selling the cities where they're at as
more than just look at how big this
place is
well my thing Miami they did a really
good job with that sure I'm not sure I
think they could do more when I compare
it to like traditional sports and how
well those broadcasts sell the cities
because they've had time to be there and
I think a large part of this has come
from the fact that league is really
young and all they've had to push art
look at how big these stadiums are which
just doesn't resonate with me as someone
who doesn't go to events yeah I think I
think that Miami is a pretty good
example of a situation where they're
trying they're trying to do more than
that so I'd be interested to see where
it goes I'm not locked into my opinion
but right now for the 2018 MSI the fact
that it's at the EU LCS studio doesn't
really impact me all right so before we
before we move on from this topic Travis
you should do a straw poll right now of
twitch chat and ask do they care about
the venue size / location yes or no like
for MSI cuz I'll just do it yeah or yeah
do it and then do it after the event or
during the event and see if see if you
get a difference of a and yeah okay it'd
be cool to see if people right now think
like yeah I don't really care and then
they start watching and they're like
wait watching them in the same setting
that they already already playing all
the time is not hype yeah and I don't
like most people don't watch it you so
for them it's a pretty similar
viewership for their finals supposedly
yeah so I think I think maybe they've
done a worse job of building up their
bottom teams it's the same problem North
America had last year where no one
watched dig verse p1 it had like 10k
viewers on the second channel alright I
just tweeted that I will link I'll link
the tweet and in twitch chat so people
can vote yeah very good well hey thank
you so much my expand for coming on the
show thanks for having me it's been a
lot anything yeah it's been it's been a
while sorry if twitch try arif twitch
that flames you you didn't you did have
a very controversial opinion I could
deal with George shots okay very good
how's the weather been in Seattle by the
way I should I pack Travis I voted I'm
the only one who voted it's a hundred
percent yes right now just don't include
the one vote part and screenshot it so
you can see that one percent yeah I it
sorts it's already different for me on
my screen I saw this exact three shot
thank you Mike spam alright moving on to
the next caller I don't know I think I
think it's crazy is saying that people
don't won't care but I think we're just
gonna blame him when he gets off no I
mean I I flamed into his face I I think
what will be interesting is the the
problem is is I think riot often looks
at the stuff and they they probably say
like okay well look we saved all this
money and the same amount of people
watched it but there's like a viewer
sentiment factor there that I think
people aren't really taking into account
so yeah and you won't necessarily get
like a super adverse effect to
viewership for that event but for future
events people are thinking like is it
worthwhile for me to tune in is this
going to be a memorable experience yeah
and or maybe they just get overall a
little bit less - it and then like when
fortnight does something on the moon
yeah you get a little more excited for
that yeah Rocketman two three nine were
you calling from Michigan rural
definitely rural Michigan it's a lot
different from like urban are you in the
there's like a dog in a glove right you
which was more tarinai in your area code
No so hey don't talk what uh how is to
three his area code when dachshund what
it well I mean just an area but I mean
it's so there's like a really wide area
for that so is it part of your social
security number no rocket van 239 what
do you want to talk about on the show um
basically like what the effect of having
new orgs and the semifinals and finals
especially like clutch with their little
social media presence had unlike the
viewership though don't don't give Calvi
they're like I've heard mixed things so
I've heard some people say that
viewership was down 20% and then I heard
I think there's an interview somewhere
with right chopper maybe I misunderstood
maybe he's talking about spring split
versus MSI or whatever but I heard the
viewership was up there so have we heard
an official I don't know mark or Kelly
if you've seen this but has there been
an official statement about what the
viewership was like year-over-year for a
messiah I don't think well he said
clutch so I think he meant all of em
asari
Rahman sorry what we rocket myth just
not rocket are you talking about MSI or
spring split I was talking about a
spring split finals yeah spring split
finals okay so technically watch so much
clutch was no semifinals semifinals oh
why was I saying a messiah I don't know
I was thinking about would you listen to
anything that he said no I did for some
reason I was thinking of MSI and then I
convoluted it with Miami yeah in my mind
well I mean one of the one of those
arenas is much bigger than the the point
is okay so for Miami finals yes
have we heard anything about what
ultimate viewership was I didn't see any
official stuff but I know on the days
that they were happening there two Reds
went up one for EU and then one for na
and the NA one they were talking about
how viewership for the finals was
actually up compared to summer last
split yeah so wrapping is always higher
than summer I've always heard the
I think it's the opposite no spring
split always gets better viewership than
summer split wrath baby longer finals
but during the regular season
yeah always this was only for the the
regular or the actual finals oh because
it was like 500 something K for Europe
500 something and then the finals last
year which had TSM c9 and it peaked at
our TSM immortal excuse me and it peaked
at like 476 or something I forget what
the number was but there were people
talking in the comments but I didn't
check their numbers to be like these
look right and it could just be idiots
just mouth no offside on that yeah I
mean both finals being over 500k I feel
like is something that leaks got to be
happy with I don't think the numbers are
bad I just don't I don't know I think
it's good over okay so I do I think that
we would have had higher viewership in a
world where TSM on cloud 9 had been in
the finals I do think that but I think
overall the viewership should still be
something that we're happy with that
looked good like it didn't it if you
told me that like a brand new franchise
team would be in the finals against Team
Liquid I would be really skeptical about
the viewership seeing that that wasn't
the case I think I'm pretty excited
about that
additionally I think final is TSM and TL
not TS I'm on cloud nine what I think
the highest viewership final is TSM and
TL not TSM and cloud nine I don't know
about that Team Liquid ik has
historically not been as nearly as
popular pop you know for sure but I
think there's a much better narrative
with doublelift playing TSM yeah I don't
know sometimes the narratives pull stuff
out but I think overall like the pocket
like the push of cloud 9 verse is
stronger than the narrative of TL
jumping back to the numbers twitch chat
mentioned that year over year it's down
though because the spring finals last
year had higher viewership yeah yeah so
like Wrath of Khan has been saying that
for a while I don't I don't know if it's
true I don't know where that information
came comes from so I don't want to
necessarily mean that citation with
everything that I feel like
I've seen as well yeah talking about it
if it is down I don't think it was down
by that much I think that the numbers
are great for the teams that were
playing in it and by the way I think
this is a good thing overall because I I
think no offense to to Andy and the TSN
guys that it wasn't good for the sport
that seemingly half of the fan base was
all concentrated on one team and I do
think now with the departure of
doublelift TSM not making it very far in
the playoffs all that stuff that we are
seeing a stronger distribution of fandom
across the different teams including
hundred thieves a brand new team I think
that's overall good long-term for the
for the game so I'm okay taking a hit on
spring finals viewership if it means
that long term we see a stronger
distribution of fan base across all the
different teams do you think we're gonna
see another like team like TSM you take
over the majority of the fan base no I
don't think so ever again unless like
well I shouldn't say ever again you know
if league continues on forever in ten
years from now we have another team
that's got all the most popular players
and they stick together and they win
worlds like yeah there's a pretty good
chance that that team is gonna like take
over a lot of the fan but I think for
now a lot of the teams are so close and
skill and there's pretty popular players
on a lot of the different teams and I
think you know in the past we had a lot
of teams that just didn't really know
how to capitalize on wins or build a
brand or whatever but now we've got
teams like hundred thieves that are
coming in and they're able to do that so
I don't think that we're gonna see I
think that this is a trend that will
continue on but we'll see I mean again
like all it takes is for TSM to have a
really good run at Worlds for them to
consolidate a lot of their fan base back
I think that I think that I agree with
you like 90% of what you're saying
Travis but I think that so what sounds
like you're ten percent wrong yeah yeah
sure but I think well maybe you'll agree
with me as well it would be interesting
to hear what you'd say that what what
competitive success does is it gives you
the opportunity to create a fan base but
if you don't have anything behind it as
far as personality or content or any
like sort of stickiness for people to
attach to then your results really
matter that much I think why TSM did
such a good job cultivating that fanbase
and retaining it is that not only were
they incredibly consistent with
performance but obviously they had very
popular players good personalities and
created a lot of content behind it which
allowed them to you know build up that
really strong fan base we saw early on
with cloud nine
before high meteos and especially sneaky
started streaming a lot and gained in
popularity even though they were winning
a bunch of splits when their results
fell off their popularity would kind of
fall off as well but they've they've
they've essentially remedied that now
where they're much more sticky with
their fan base because the players also
became big personalities and they
started doing content yeah a hundred
thieves awesome I have no doubt that
they will be able to create that
stickiness with the competitive success
that they've seen I believe in echo Fox
as well
clutch could do it they just need to
invest into that to make it possible so
you think like the winning is kind of
like to start them out and then they
need to build on from that like yeah
well so if you look at the losing teams
YouTube's like even the people who are
putting stuff out like fly Quest is
actually putting out content for a
little while now is a good content to
know but they're still putting it out in
turtle in turtle has a hundred thousand
plus Twitter followers and the video got
like 700 views yeah that's you could be
creating I do believe that you can
create great content and if you are a
team that is just tanking is really hard
to get anybody to pay attention into
your content or give you a lot restraint
yeah and like I'm not saying that
content deserves more views or whatever
like you know if they were the number
one team and turtle retweeted that sure
people would probably watch it but it
was taken ago Kelby when you were
talking slash or showed up in twitch
chat and says Kelby is dumb and then he
corrected himself and said Kelby is
wrong I don't know what he didn't
provide any more context but our good
our good pal slash it takes your dumb in
a rock I just agree on Echo Fox because
I don't feel like other than hooni and
maybe da rock the players have done a
good job of like
turning that into personal you only need
to yeah like like they have a brand of
like who those two players are but those
two players don't have like big streams
or YouTube channels no I mean I think
that's because I think it's because echo
fox a deal with Facebook so I don't know
and I don't know the nature of that but
I know for a while they were posting a
lot of content Facebook tri-corner
Facebook just paid for via train
I've seen echo fox put 1 point 6 K likes
on his Facebook page I don't think
that's very many you have like 5 billion
yeah well I'm I assumed it was a
monetary deal I assumed Facebook cuz you
know Facebook for a while was I mean
seemingly stills interest in competing
with twitch for live coding yes so I
know yes I'll host they're gonna to
tournament on their yeah I'm just saying
they're not resonating with the fan base
really yeah I don't I don't see vods of
their stuff I don't see him getting big
twitch numbers I don't see them having
engaged like huge engagement and I think
Dar doc has a good person I like for
hooni has a good personality for and I
think through their interviews with riot
and stuff they have branded themselves
well but I don't think the org has
necessarily done a great job yeah I'm
just saying that I think they can do it
oh yeah okay yeah I've seen echo fox put
money into content creation and stuff
like they just yeah yeah they do all
right with their smash players actually
and stuff they fighting game scene mmhmm
yeah yeah pretty good well Rocket Man
two three nine anything else for us no
that's pretty much it
very good well thank you so much for
calling it into the show really
appreciate it
hey Mark I'm gonna go ahead and and do a
quick break here why well mark I'm glad
you asked mark because it's time to talk
about our sponsor omen by HP now I know
you all have heard this before cuz
anytime I mention them twitch chat just
spams Owen by HP you're all big fans
like myself but let's talk about why
we're all such big fans of a woman by HP
well ever since I entered the space a
couple years ago
they've been really supporting eSports
doing some cool stuff for the gaming
community as they as they create
products that I used I used right now to
broadcast this I'm looking at an omen by
HP monitor I've got an omen by HP laptop
behind me and they're really the thing
that's powering so much of the
operations here including this show they
reached out to me last year and wanted
to support the show and other content
that we were doing so we we talked about
they sent some computers over for
brother nineties at Worlds and then this
year obviously they came on board with
the show they support it
which is super appreciated because it
makes this a well profitable endeavor
for mark and myself it's the type of
thing that allows us to keep creating
content like it and really doing a lot
of cool stuff they support everything
from overwatch League all the way down
it says any video show that you're
watching right now you know it's just a
very grassroots thing and I really
appreciate I know Mark does too because
while we were just talking about the
offline TV situation he'd probably be
out on the street right now if it wasn't
for them I'm just kidding but but what
is cool is that and I think mark will
agree with this it is really cool that
this show is one of a number of
different projects that were able to
work on and you can kind of take
creative risks do different things to
whatever because you know there's
supporting content like this so I really
like I really you know obviously
appreciate their support if you do
should go check them out on Twitter
Thermo follow say hello to them tell
them you appreciate their support you
can check them out I just pit a
misspelled version of their the URL for
their twitter and twitch chat I have now
put a correct version of their URL on
the twitch chat if you're watching here
you got opened by HP right you just got
Twitter yes yeah Twitter was the
definitely I'd never get to sponsor I
would ever get the response wrong if you
are watching the YouTube pod which some
of you do you can look in the
description there's a link to them to
their Twitter you can go give them a
shout out thanks thank them for
sponsoring the show it's just really
nice to have their support they do a lot
of cool stuff and the space and I think
this might be the coolest thing
obviously I'm biased so thanks so much
to owned by HP free support really
appreciate and looking forward to
shouting you out next week as well all
right mark time to grab the next folks
moving on as well as on one by HP I do
you want to give a shout out to a couple
friends and who helps support the show
I'm still catching up so many of you
guys sent bits and stuff Millsap nine
one seven the serializer globe local
gifted acepted array Thank You DeRay for
receiving a gift for vocal he's gifted
more than anybody else I think David
Keogh Darth zombie 13 cue the music
and then Starbuck gifted a sub to liquid
one one two so Steve now getting paid by
Starbuck it's very very interesting
complex situation bio traces on the show
bio trace are you related all to borrow
frost no no relation and the names not
even connected actually okay but well
where are you calling from
I'm calling from Spring Arbor Michigan
spring armor right we just had a
Michigan guy on yeah yeah yeah no it's
open Hewitt's give me a relative idea of
where he's from
are you in a rural area yes very much so
yeah dami you guys are like next-door
you say bye say hotline league merch and
then you can hopefully bump into each
other oh there's no mercy at Travis
right yeah the last time you did this
remember my merch idea the last time you
did this Luke spent months figuring out
how to do a live show please don't start
do it they also say yes the data
whenever they'll say yes but then
whenever you stick like a 300 dollar
limited edition hotline League Jersey in
front of them hmm
they they won't cough up I don't know
why after the finals can we wait a
little bit after the sponsor plug for
you to explain this idea because I want
even more time to pass there's a safety
you're not gonna watch all the sponsor
plugs yeah I need I need a they need to
you know walk away from their computer
before you buy Oh trace what do you want
to talk about on the show so I think
that the Golden State Warriors do not
care about their LCS team and it's it's
obvious by their by the content that
they're putting out and for example is I
would rather have no shop than the
crappy shop that they have so as long as
your shop isn't absolutely horrible then
maybe maybe you would when you say shop
are you talking about their merch yeah
their merch is absolutely horrendous it
looks like it was made in a sweatshop
what is this okay to be clear what is
most clothings mean this way yeah I mean
I can you define what clothing looks
like it's made in a sweatshop first day
it I've never known that to be a
distinguishing feature is there I mean
Travis the golden Guardians don't have
the greatest are you okay but I just say
the sweatshop thing is a little
confusing because I don't know of
jerseys can you link it to them I'm not
in twitch chat all right only because I
don't read the twitch chat you know this
I don't let it influence myself it's a
good idea
I just feel like shop okay go ahead yeah
I just feel like their overall
organization is just like feels like
it's not cared about and I think part of
that is the appearance of well the fact
that they're a brand new organization
coming in and they have they finished
dead last and you know only won a couple
of games but I just even looking at
their YouTube I mean they've put out 23
videos total and half of them are plays
of the week from their team or
highlights and it's just like this video
has 285 views 188 views 100
eighty-one views like well I mean you
can't you can't use views gee I mean it
that is independent of whether or not
the organization supports it right like
that's the about the fan base not about
I I agree that looking at their content
judging the amount of content they're
putting out on the type of stuff they're
putting out it's a good way to just say
whether or not but I think that the
views are a little bit different okay
sure that's that's definitely but with
the kind of content they're putting out
it looks like they've started some
things and didn't finish it like they
started putting out some stuff for their
academy team and just kind of stopped
partway through the years right exactly
and and so even even their leadership I
don't even know who runs golden
Guardians but I mean I know who
Sebastian Park is and I know who
nadeshot is but I just feel like they're
completely disconnected from the entire
LCS community and just kind of like just
kind of letting them try to survive and
just trying to do I don't know what
their end goal is it just feels like
they have no they have no direct path of
where they're going or what they're
doing and it just kind of feels like
they're just they're they're not putting
out content they're not doing anything
with their team's at I don't know what
do you guys think like yeah so okay here
we go first off let's address this okay
okay so first first off first off some
he says in chat why is Travis defending
golden Guardian so I first off want to
make it clear I don't think I'm
defending golden Guardians I do take
issue with the idea that looking at a
store online can you can say that this
looks like it's it's done in a sweatshop
and and to that like you should continue
content that's getting a Henson 50 it is
a super ethic I I'd take issue with that
to answer your question if you go to my
youtube channel you can see multiple
interviews done with the leadership of
the golden Guardians its guide the main
guy that runs this guy named Hunter
hunter here's the
caveat before we talk about all the
stuff conflict of interest hunter first
worked with me at CBS Interactive
whenever we worked at GameSpot together
he then helped me run Yahoo eSports
together secondly Travis is boss it both
that's not true
Hunter has never been my boss best
friends I I mean you know either
either he's terrible at running things
or he was my boss because if he was my
boss my god that guy is brilliant look
at what he's but he was never my boss uh
secondly the second-in-command golden
golden Guardians is a guy named spell Z
who lives with me and is probably
listening to this on the other side of
this wall right down the third thing is
their social media person their social
media persons woman named Rachel Gigi I
hired a yeah GG s Travis yeah all that
being said here let me let me tell you
what I agree with and and don't agree
with what you said I agree with the fact
that their content has been very
lackluster so far I think they did a
great job with the bringing golden
Guardians to the Golden State Warriors
situation bring him to the Golden State
Warriors team and the venue and the
stadium and all the stuff they put up
that was like the first video they ever
put out on their channel I thought that
was really good
I do not think creating content around
your around the Academy teams or Academy
highlights is actually very interesting
and I think that
that's it makes sense that they
discontinued that I also think that I
would point out though if think I've
retweeted this a while ago that they
were actively trying to hire a head of
content or like a video guy or something
like that so I would imagine that will
get fixed in the future for additional
contents context on I just remember this
issues of this before the guy that
Hunter works with slash for is guy named
Kirk lakum who is the son of Joel a cub
who is the guy that actually this is
very sad for Kirk by the way when you
look up Kirk Lake up on Google his title
is just
Joel a Cubs son hopefully hopefully he
gets to something too but he he actually
is on the other hand you are that dude
son yeah so he actually is the assistant
GM for the Golden State Warriors so
there's a pretty direct link between the
Golden State Warriors leadership and the
golden Guardians leadership so but I so
here's what I will say excuse me Oh bio
trace I was trained remember your name
bio trace so I think you're completely
correct in feeling this way and I
completely understand why you think this
way because I do I agree that there has
not been as much content coming out I
think that whenever you are the last
placing team in the LCS it looks like
people don't care they I think
strategically went for a a they didn't
spend the money that 100 thieves are
Team Liquid did to get like the award
winning team so I think it makes
complete sense that this is how you
should you should feel even though I
know firsthand that that's not the case
that like the Golden State Warriors
actually do there's an interview I did
with hunter that you should watch if you
actually do care about the stuff where
he was talking about how anytime picks
and bans occur yeah you know they go
through draft like I think he said like
their CFO or other executives from the
Golden State Warriors message him and
say like is this good is this what we
want like they're watching it and seeing
it stuff so I I do know that that's not
there but I do think that they have a
long road to go and building out things
like way better merch and a better
content team and and all that stuff and
I think hundred thieves kind of blew the
world alone they were made in the
sweatshop yeah I again I don't know if
they look like they were made in a
sweatshop but yeah but but I do agree
that hundred thieves merch is way better
than the golden Guardians what merch oh
yeah well but you can buy the golden
Guardians March which is maybe an added
advantage to it over the maybe need to
get their team in contact with a
sweatshop yeah
all right let's let's stop talking about
the sweatshop on sit on to the roster a
little bit
I can see why a lot of fans feel that
way because even ppet optic to an
extent was like built to win and I don't
think at any point anyone ever felt or
said that like this team of golden
Guardians was built to win and I think
that people understandably and correctly
called that out a little bit so on that
point that Travis didn't really cover I
also think they liked it didn't look
good yeah yeah Kelby you're a big
conflict here but go for it yeah sure no
I mean uh I've talked to Hunter about
this
he knows they haven't put out a lot of
content he knows that there it's
something that they need to invest in
and they haven't done it yet but yeah I
mean I don't think there's a lot of
competitive if I'm an LCS fan I don't
think there's a lot of compelling
reasons to attach myself or create
fandom for the Guardians other than I
also happen to be a huge Golden State
Warriors fan and because I am a Golden
State Warriors fan I just automatically
like the golden guardians in liking the
Golden State Warriors organization and
helping in the future that whatever I
like about that organization will bleed
through the Guardians but I honestly I
feel I feel the same way about a lot of
the New York's the only the only organ
that has really impressed me as far as
how they've been able to hit the ground
running has been a hundred thieves and
as far as like disappointments Guardians
aren't the most disappointing team for
me because I had expectations the optic
is the most disappointing team for me by
far because guys I would say a better
grass roots in gaming yeah they had they
had displayed a very very strong
aptitude for creating and engaging a fan
base in multiple titles everybody's
going to point to Cod but in multiple
titles and then they came into LCS and
they just came out super flat and I
don't know why I care about optic at all
and it's like nothing nothing that I
feel like they learned in other titles
has shone through from you know yes yeah
I agree with that I found down there I
which ones more discipline
I will say a good organization is not
gonna be measured by like their first
split it's gonna be measured yeah the
first couple years hopefully so like if
golden Guardian sucks
after summer next split and they just
kind of been booty hole the whole time I
think it's yeah definitely yeah oh oh go
ahead no I just said yeah that's all and
then I think finally the only thing I
want to talk about is is the is the
subject of conflict of interest because
this raises a point so I'm playing I
don't know if I'm gonna be able to do it
because I don't know if we filmed enough
but I wanted to do a vlog that was just
called conflict of interest and it was
about the week and I spent with Kelby
this past weekend and look things like
this golden Guardians thing come up and
it's a I think it's a good thing and a
bad thing a relationship that I have
there's no way that I can't look I
worked with hunter for all this time
there's no way that I can be like fuck
you hunter right now of no feeling and
emotion to you or whatever but I do
think my so one it obviously I'm super
biased I am more prone probably to
defend golden Guardians I think the
other thing that was is that I know a
lot about this stuff and that's why
whenever I hear people say you know
golden Guardians leadership doesn't care
or sorry golden warriors know the state
warriors don't care about golden
Guardians at all like I'm well
positioned to understand the broader
story of what's going on there so you
know it's just kind of the way the
eSports works these days so you know
everybody has relationships with
everybody and some of them are gonna be
stronger than others but I know I hope
that answers your your topic outrace
yeah two things quick before I jump out
I just want to point out that my hot
take on how it it's not that surprising
that TSM didn't make it in was brought
up by jet on the analyst desk I just
thought that was pretty interesting I'm
not as crazy as everyone thinks is this
in Miami way when TSM lost in the first
round
Chad jet made it made a point to talk
about how this is a new league with new
teams and a lot more talent and that's
not as surprising that TSM didn't make
it finals I thought that was pretty
interesting alright
yeah I think we hit on that on the
hotline league live that we did where
was like you roulette but maybe it's
Kelby who is popping off about this a
week or two ago about you let like one
of the best North American talents of
all time back into the environment like
of course your competition is gonna be
better yeah but uh be a blessing is
hashtag pick lb so pay Cup cool get
everybody wants me to get paint is good
having you on the show bio trees some
value for further record I'll say it
again Travis and Mark offered to pay me
and I said I appreciate the sentiment
but I'm not I'm not I don't want this to
become an obligation for me I want to
continue to do it for fun you know and
once you're getting paid you know it's
mark and I breathe a sigh of relief
because we we value him at roughly five
dollars per episode and we were worried
that having to explain that that was the
cost would he'd get a little insulted
for that I was certain about the
obligation point where it's like wait
we're like stuck with Kelby now that was
my concern
a couple things really quickly we've got
a lot of stuff going on on twitch at say
so narrow is on the chat he subbed and
said Wow fantastic would hate to miss a
single hotline League episode pretty
sure he's missing before and also he
wants to know if we all bought one
orange and one blue light just for the
show well that's why they should sponsor
the show by the way
with how much love and attention we give
them I have every light bulb in my house
as a feel just one LED light mark and
can you give me 60 seconds something can
you pull slasher from the waiting room
because he he wants to give up my seat I
see through him in that yeah he because
I need to get through this uh Laguna's
free subs he says the chainsmokers in
all caps McHugh's reserved alex tequila
23 bubba cola gifted a sub Giselle very
nice if I'm just casual subbed he's the
guy that helps run the audio version of
podcast so thank you so much to him
captain hat subbed for our M Jess swag
Asst
fishy Bulba color gifted a sub two Asian
six-pack okay miss tinman 0 4 3 2 3 subs
and real foxy pledged $10 by a patron
thank you so much we are really behind
on all these but I'll get through them
are you want to pull slasher you can
check and make sure his audios work ok
and a good idea and then let's see dot
radiance is omen by HP omen by HP mad
fishing says right should have an event
in Dallas I've heard that it's hard for
them to do stuff in Texas but that's a
rumor the bigs cheered dyslexia subbed
and martu 586 ree subbed and slashers
here in the chat right now and the call
/ already calling from your muted okay
there we go oh I'm waiting for you to do
your plug Travis okay where are you
coming from plot my apartment New York
City Beautiful New York City in
Manhattan loft
by the way change from New York City no
stop it Kelby your beef it tastes awful
I'm right near such a park just a block
away slasher do you want to explain who
you are to the members of twitch chat
that don't understand who you are I
don't think anyone cares Who I am
okay well then let's move on to did you
know that got hit by an uber I did we
talked about that okay we were at
Kelly's birthday party thing and I was
just like this is this is not a good
picture was why was Thoren driving an
uber and why Excel winning party and you
know thorn just ran right around the
clock hit me straight on and said get
get wrecked make it all the way to New
York somebody rich fat described you as
just quote another unemployed eSports
journalist which I think might just sum
you up really well how's your ankle
do you have
Travon speed you are too much different
right now my ankle is pretty fucked up
actually I can't really walk do you have
health insurance that's well I got the
drunk drivers gonna pick it for
everything okay I got the cops involved
and we'll be doing it's uber though who
knows yeah but acquittees for a turtle
doesn't sin yeah yeah a nice little yeah
they were trying to avoid bad press and
if I know anything about you it's that
you're really good at getting bad press
yeah so what do you talk about on the
show today
what's your pot take yeah I love the
show thank you I try I really do try to
tune it I catch end in kind of late
today so I don't know what you're
talking about it but I just as soon as
ice I watched it was Cal we talking more
nonsense that I do have to say it is
indicative of all three of you actually
I don't know Mark as well but definitely
you to prioritize fan base and traffic
and views more than winning all the time
and that is really all that you care but
is if the team and the brand and the
content is doing well and they put out a
good videos and they do their promotion
well and then you don't mean if they're
a good team maybe if they were a good
team then that kind of matters its
variant and it's total nonsense because
how much did immortals success do for
them that's a totally like you know
actually I would want to talk about that
did did write definitely like your other
ran and why it's L is a totally Korean
team and the number one in the league
and that is definitely propelled them to
the fan base they have it doesn't matter
that the entire team is Korean and none
of them can really speak English and
that has influenced our content and yada
yada yada
it doesn't matter and really that's the
same that goes for the London Spitfire
who was another Korean team which is
doing just fine in terms of promotion
and marketing the views and all that
nonsense with entire
non-english speaking team and there are
other teams and other games that have
proven the same thing I would say like a
gambit who won two csgo major yeah you
have like Zeus and you have Divya the
sex gods so they already have
personalities and I get that
for you to prioritize building a team
and this goes directly into the golden
Guardians to like have a fan base over
fucking winning you are out of your
goddamn mind winning is the thing that
builds the fan but shed though you know
winning gives you the opportunity to do
all this stuff it is the priority it is
not like the thing that you do on the
side yeoman Guardians and look I've
worked with hunter too along with iris
for many years is unbelievable to me
that that team is constructed the way
what that team was constructed to lose
and I've spoken to Hunter a little bit
on his methodology ability to team and a
lot of it is due to like building the
American fan base the American East
Force and this will bring us to victory
sometime I mean that's that that's weird
that he said that to you because I don't
think I mean Kelby did he ever explain
it he didn't see if it didn't seem to
mean like they were about building an
American fan base I wish they would have
like two popular players but they still
have five American players Norfolk team
has that why would you do that if your
goal is to even win a few games can any
of you give me a good answer I I just
I'm not I'm not disagreeing with you on
anything that you've said the slasher I
think that you're you're right on
everything well I know that what I'm
saying when I think that you're slightly
slightly just and maybe it's the way
that I'm presenting it misrepresenting
what I personally feel is important in
building an organization like Travis was
saying I just think that yeah if you if
you want to build a sticky fan base like
you will get lots of attention as long
as you're winning you know we've we've
seen that sports traditional sports
eSports yeah yeah for sure but if you
want the fans to stick around beyond
your success which is something that you
can't control as much as the resources
that you're putting behind them on
content creation right if you want them
to stick around and still of your
organization when you have the ups and
downs because not everybody wins all the
time then yeah I think it's important to
have to develop the personalities on
your team and do good content creation
but of course no
we'll care about your team just like
Travis said regardless of how good your
content is if you can't win games
nobody's gonna care at all why would
they care right it's it's competitive
its competitive eSports right like if
you're not if you're not able to win
then yeah nobody cares about your
competitive journey I see it i see with
Evil Geniuses dota team right now where
even though they have the biggest
personalities in dota and they have been
the most popular team for a while
because the team is not winning as much
as they used to the content is better
than it's ever been but it doesn't get
as much traffic because the team son
isn't the same thing happening to TSM
and League Kelby
you were just telling me this weekend
that you think TSM Legends is like super
super good and hitting a bug right now
but there the viewership on that stuff
has fallen exactly yeah I think you're
sorry no no I think you're absolutely
right slasher um yeah I wouldn't
disagree with you at all I want to hear
from the actual ex verdict on here who
Mark Gatiss with yeah like I was saying
when we were talking when that fan
called me about golden Guardians and how
it feels like they don't care about
their team and they were listing like
the jerseys and all this other stuff I
talked about how like well I think you
can especially feel with how they put
that team together like a lot of other
teams at least tried to put a
competitive team together and like you
said this team like no one had any
belief that they would ever do well and
like it did kind of work out for fly
quest when people said a similar thing
but then they tanked instantly the next
split so like yeah I'm with you like so
what do things on the golden Grange
thing golden Guardians bias be you know
maybe is the case but I'm just pulling
this information directly from
interviews that are publicly available
like I don't there's a there's a thought
here that golden Guardians like that
every team had to be suit let winning
and success is defined by winning spring
split which I don't think is the case I
think that now that we're out of a
relegation system you can work on
building a roster over time like this is
what the Golden State Warriors did and
has led them to the success that they
have now right right and I I get that
I'm just saying the like you didn't even
like grab
necessarily pieces that would be great
for that like you know hi is a pretty
known quantity Matt is a pretty known
quantity like Laurel these guys are all
2-year veterans and like they are na
players but you need to find yeah I
don't know it's just like you didn't
it's it's not even like the hard
committed to youth or anything like that
really it definitely was young contracts
is kind of young sure but like I mean
they're like a year younger than all the
other they have the youngest roster yeah
yeah sure sure but it's also like you
could also try and supplement that with
some other Talent
other than high or something like
because remember that we had that caller
who called in and said like why is high
working with this team like if he's not
directly making them a better players
why is he your guy as opposed to trying
out of it people remember and I actually
thought that was a really good take on
yeah yeah so I'm saying like I don't
even think like if you're trying to
argue for a long term strategy you could
you could make the case that this isn't
even a great long term strap well I
think I think what will be telling us
what happens in the off season both
between the young and summer
do they make changes to try to improve
the roster and after summer assuming
they don't go to worlds which i think is
a pretty good assumption what changes do
they make if they are continue to pick
up like lackluster players and they seem
to be just going for like a budget
option then yeah that's gonna be really
disappointing but if they decide like oh
deftly actually played really well this
year and we're gonna keep him on and
then we're gonna change out something
else like I don't know I think that's
fine yeah I think like I said I think
definitely actually did pretty well at
the ad carry position I thought their
balling was real good like they have
some pieces but yeah you gotta you gotta
pull the trigger on on a big-name we got
on I think you know the golden Guardian
is a perfect example and there are other
teams I think at LCS and never games
where they're not built to win they're
either built to like build the American
fanbase or they're built to try to get
views further content I just don't think
ggs you built a fan base like that that
seems weird to me I don't know I don't
know what conversations we've been
having with hunter but lakeside there
are so much they could have picked up
cutiepie Stara boy boy like there are
players you can get if you want to build
a fan
bass from doing interviews I'm telling
you that picking up definitely and Matt
is not the way that they're gonna if
they did if their whole goal was to just
build a fan base then they did that
terribly because it's not a roster you
build to build a ferry player you think
just coincidence they have five American
players Travis are you blinded by your
friendship how they are equal to the
Shanghai dragons in terms of
disappointment in ease for us right now
it I mean it is actually kind of
unbelievable that hunter put together
that goddamn roster and I think it is
definitely indicative of GM's not doing
what they should in terms of the first
priority should be winning not views not
traffic that you assume that all
American American players are gonna be
more give you more fandom than European
or Korean players like if you get a
Korean player that can speak English
that can be incredible even one that can
barely speak English can build a huge
fan base European players build fan
bases all the time I the most popular
player that competes on the na LCS is a
European player well I think I think
slashers point is more that it was more
of a team identity that they are
building unless individual player
identity were you saying like we believe
in na Talent and therefore we're gonna
invest in them and that was I think what
he's saying pigeon was on that team from
a PR perspective yeah I think that's
what it was from a PR perspective I
don't think that that was the real
strategy I think the real strategy was
let's not spend a bajillion dollars like
Team Liquid in hundred thieves this year
and let's build a roster that is young
players that we can add on overtime I
think that was the real strategy now I
don't I don't know if that's a good idea
because I mean how much that this goes
into a whole another conversation but is
na else yet like if you have a five-year
plan what does an analyst it's gonna
look like five years from now it's a
little bit different trying to do a long
plan in the NBA versus na LCS but I
understand the strategy that they
employed for for this and I don't think
it was just like let's create a very
popular team using Matt and deftly like
that's that's how we're gonna build
fandom well I think it also depends like
like you said like where they go from
because if they take like three-fifths
of this roster to fist this roster and
then like their plan was to avoid the
kind of salary jump that's gonna happen
when a bunch of teams joined the scene
and want to make sure they get good
players then the next split you can grab
some people cheaper they can build a
competitive roster that way then like I
I think you know looking back on it you
can say that this was a successful
strategy yeah cheap at the Guardians no
idea I think they're probably the I if I
had to guess I'd say the second second
shoot this yeah either optic or I think
probably their optic or grow mater has
come out and said that optic is the
lowest paid and he has access to the
players numbers through the players
associations would be part of this sorry
also a big part of this aspect maybe
hunter doesn't want to pay any money he
feels you're getting overpaid and that
LCS players are overpaid right now and
we LCS players are overpaid right now
why why what one thing I want to go back
to what you said the slasher is like you
said that you think that too many GM's
are putting too much focus on content as
opposed to priority I personally see it
or sorry as a priority of competitive
success I personally see it as the
opposite I feel like I only see GM's
building for competitive success and not
putting enough priority on popularity
because while I do think that
competitive stick-out successes drives
to popularity the most important thing
at the end of the day is eyeballs and
how many fans care about your results
you won't have a lot of fans caring
about your results if you never have
them but ultimately like in the end how
many people care about you is what
drives your business you know like I
don't give a fuck if you win every
championship you need to make money and
you can't make money if you don't sell
merchandise you don't get sponsors
nobody cares about you right but like
what what GM's are like do you think are
who am I missing out there that's like
pushing more towards content as opposed
to competitors well I'm coming from a
scene where the Dow is filled just and
it continues to implode
as going in they thought that they were
gonna be they were a very strong Western
team right
any excuse e and Siegel was specifically
towards getting a fan base yeah they're
good players really good players but
there was direct intent of what that was
supposed to do and it did not go so well
yeah I'm not over watching your what
mark or slasher I you had two topics we
really you have a tendency just take
over everything that you show on but
what it was your second one before we
move on to the next color
oh well I didn't know if you're gonna
take fresca Aaron's question I thought
it was pretty interesting I only missed
I missed ik his I haven't seen Spanish
yeah what she was if you wanna you want
to bring it up she wanted to know what
the impacts were in size to viewership
and if the league could do more to
market or if it's on the brand's
themselves personally I'm sorry you're
saying is it on the team or the league
to build the brand
yes it seems I think if you're paying
twenty million it's on the league if
it's if you're paying tenants on the
team come on that's a good one
that's a nice okay you make that part of
the argument but I would say from the
outside Blizzard has totally owned Riot
in terms of the promotional oh one
hundred and yeah right really has kind
of dropped the ball at the same time
right and twitch don't have this type of
partnership through the paint a lot of
money for which is not included and
Blizzard tried to has to try to spend
more money because it is the first
season so o WL might not be the best
example but they are putting Riot to
shame really go ahead and Kelly I was
gonna say riot does have a similar
relationship with fam tech where we just
haven't seen anything
yeah that's Elias because I work for
twitch bias bias but uh you know twitch
and overwatch League made something and
then pushed it out right away
BAM Tech deal has been like years now we
haven't seen anything that's a whole
separate conversation but yeah I don't
know I think it's it's hard for me to
compare overwatch League
riot because every wants to compare an
ALCS to overwatch League if right took
all the money that they're spending in
their leagues all around the world and
funneled it into na LCS what would that
look like
verse overwatch league like it's it's
very different from a global perspective
League of Legends eSports continues to
kick over watch his ass from a local
perspective by God like why doesn't
right have more than State Farm and like
kind of Acer sponsoring LCS whenever
overwatch League was able to London land
all that shit
well Riot chooses to waste money on EU
LCS right nobody's forcing them to do
that overwatch League made their
strategy and decided to do something
different than what Rides doing and yeah
they're ultimately they're creating a
much better looking product yeah well so
I guess to get back to some of the
original points it was that the league
was doing a better job promoting itself
or the the orgs that are part of it I
would say both teams make money I'm
happy right so like as someone who when
they watch overwatch League it's
basically just the gameplay I don't know
what they've done like what have they
done just just like filming I'm like
what an example game tokens are probably
the biggest interaction in terms of
selling skins directly for the team and
twitch you have like an all-access pass
you can spend if you spend 30 bucks you
get access to a bunch of unique features
and ways to watch the game if you spend
20 or if you if you have twitch prime
you get it for 20 and like twit they
brought in twitch and twitch is able to
push this a ton and Amazon does a bunch
of stuff and traceless lives and ready
player one three times for some reason
yeah there's revenue sharing I don't
know what revenue they're sharing
there's probably not yeah exactly but it
exists in na LCS for sure yeah there's a
hypothetical rev-share
yeah loss share it's hard to imagine how
it would be I mean here's the problem no
they can't make much like overwatch
League none of the shit is transparent
so like how much are they spending on
anything who
and how much are they making you just
have like rumors and weird things like
the all state sponsorship could be half
a billion dollars and the SS thing is
super profitable but I don't think it is
I've heard that it's not great and I
have heard that the state farm it don't
you mean State Farm oh yeah marketed
perfectly well that that's a branding
problem between State Farm and all state
issues become a farm and all I've heard
that the State Farm sponsorship is
significantly smaller than the smallest
overwatch league sponsorships but we
also don't know like the problem is is
this is that because State Farm is
limited just to these two splits where's
the other sponsorships are multi-year
for overwatch League I don't know like
it's it's hard to compare what it's like
again like we're just
the point is I'm pretty sure overwatch
League is making way more money than na
LCS yeah they came out and they sold way
more than rioted without having a
product and riot had years and years of
viewership like do you know how I work
in sponsorships it is so much harder to
do what overwatch did than to do what
Riot has failed to do like yeah these
sales competence on display here is like
night and day
for comparing overwatch compare
overwatch ly compared to na LCS like it
is it's embarrassing yeah I agree and I
mean I've always I've said for a long
time though that I felt like any LCS
like I don't know why they don't then we
should say Kelby works at twitch which
was partnered with overwatch League and
I just come out and clarify any biases I
might have as well I'm on the State Farm
analysis this is a very biased show
everyone I mean the o W all teams had to
surf and scratch yeah no I think it's
definitely a rights fault oh it's off I
think another hangout really quickly
another conflict of interest
overwatch League shares a sponsorship
with this show and we're talking about
overwatch League sponsors first so
there's there's a lot of like
complications here you don't listen to
anything that we say
think of interest as Travis - bought me
lunch again today yeah I don't work
there any open everybody hates me
there's no conflict of interest card I
think that overwatch League is super
impressive like more than I would say
more than riot has been a disappointment
overwatch League is super impressive to
me what's it what's a popular team that
I can like look up their YouTube channel
and why it's all the all Korean team
who's number one of the Wii and why yeah
we don't have any in and out moments
like la valiant though yeah cuz I I've
heard that riot had really the I've
heard that the reason that riot didn't
have a lot of sponsorships is because
they were really ambitious in their asks
as far as like you know what they were
willing to provide and then pricing and
then overwatch League just went out and
got those things part of them a bunch of
different brands part of the reason it's
hard to compare is that like Blizzard
Activision has been a partnership and
marketing monolith forever right like
this is the same company that does Call
of Duty and how many like like they do
integrations partner somebody the ton of
yeah yeah like they like there are tons
of the there's obviously much stronger
team that has existed for a long time I
was doing a ton of deals like this over
the years and so I that being said it
still doesn't stop me from being really
disappointed with what I've seen for
many I'll see us right now and if I was
a team owner who just paid ten million
dollars to get into the NA LCS I'd be
that and I meant one of the meetings in
Miami with riot one of the first things
I'm bringing up is where the fuck are
the sponsorships so slasher do you have
any parting words here before we move on
to the next uh yeah thank you for having
me on do you think thorne got blown the
fuck out this week you are all very
welcome I was very happy to do so a - I
got you back with your ankle so I don't
- I made a comment about doublelift
which I was pretty serious about
after liquid one in terms of like his
resolve and being able to you know
handle situation I thought it was very
memorable of him in eSport I did not
realize he he asked people not to
specifically mention the situation prior
I got a lot of upset comments which I
understand so I apologize for anyone who
is frustrated by me and my you know not
not taking care of double experience
yeah thank you so much for coming on the
show slasher yeah thanks Dean you always
liven things up and then take over half
the hour of the second block anyway
thank you so much well I want to make
you show interesting yeah but yeah you
want to take Kelby spot I mean easily
I barely watch leave I could do okay
slasher was great though yeah thank you
so much slasher for coming I really
appreciate as twitch chances hang up
look before we move on the next caller
interesting thing I talked to mark about
this earlier I have a pseudo ad pseudo
not ad to talk about on this show so
they are officially not sponsoring this
show they are sponsoring some other
content that I'm doing this week so are
actually not sponsoring mache yeah yeah
they're not they're not a sponsor for
this episode on my own on my own my only
reason I say this is because one I want
people know I am working with them and
there's some content that's hitting my
youtube channel later on because of this
but because I I like these guys and I've
known them for a while I decided to talk
about them on the second half of the
show kind of like an ad so this week on
Friday there's a cool company called a
tail that is a clothing line that is
launching it is the founders are two
people Rachel and Brianne and they have
basically been in the esports base for
about a year now a little bit of context
on them they basically come from one of
the more prestigious fashion schools one
of them was a designer @erisa and they
very the big knowledge and fashion and a
big passion and that area
and basically they sort of stumbled
across eSports got really interested it
spent a year learning about it and
decided to create clothing for gamers
essentially Kelby will like this
they went to so many events including
the halo World Championships that took
place there one of probably like six
people in the audience of the juror the
halo World Championships where there's
just like the two balloons out in front
of the ESL studio for the million dollar
prize so one story hopefully they don't
mind me telling this story that's they
didn't told me to say any of this stuff
by the way they were I guess on the
shuttle shuttle to the halo World
Championships and they're like oh look
we're on the shuttle with other fans
like they're all going to this thing and
they're like oh so you guys other fans
and they're like no actually we're one
of the teams competing in the finals
there's the point is they've gone all
over the place
and they are coming out with a their
first product this Friday I'm gonna go
ahead and put their Twitter and the chat
I think it's a tale underscoring double
check yeah you can check you can check
them out there they have a whole video
about sort of who the founders are and
they've got some other people they've
been sporting the hoodie already like hi
but yeah this is the hoodie I'll just
ease up a little bit and yeah we did a
video about it and some other things in
Miami that'll be coming out soon super
comfortable really like it just do me a
favor guys like I really like Rachel
bring in working with them they actually
really care about the eSports space I I
don't want to call I there are some
other clothing companies in the space
that I've worked with that I really like
there are some newer clothing companies
in the space that are let's put it this
way all these investors are coming into
eSports and they just look at a
whiteboard they're like what areas can
we get into Oh apparel is one of them
okay let's just create something called
likely pone and slap it all over some
shirts and sell it it's not what they're
trying to do they're trying to be really
smart and figure out like what would
help gamers be more comfortable when
they're playing a little stuff so do me
a favor I put there
Twitter and the I don't follow them I'll
follow them now sorry I just got called
out for that their Twitter's not been
very active until recently and now I'm
happy to follow it I mean they they
after we said officially not sponsor the
show they they tweeted that out so yeah
they tweeted Oh officially not a sponsor
so they are watching right now yeah
yikes
either way thanks thanks so much to
reach on Brienne for creating some cool
stuff check out their hoodie I think
it's gonna be really cool it's very
comfortable I've had it for a bit and
tweet at them say hi follow them do
something just there cool cool people a
double it'd be cool if we could double
their follower count their follower
count us now to 425 so I don't think
we're gonna be able to do that because
we only have less it was 1200 people in
here okay everyone go follow tails on
Twitter let's see how so it's at 425 now
it's at 447 or Klieman look at these
numbers they're just going look at
followers that that that wait how does
followers you know of them so Travis
follows them the Eriksson follows them
oh he follows them Montecristo follows
them that dude knows his fashion some of
these people probably getting paid by
them just what's this girl's baby you
know I an and Bri and Rachel are the two
women who have asked for twitch and all
the stuff you I don't I don't know the
reasons people follow them high follows
them Noah follows them yeah you should
I don't you should check them out
they're cool people they're doing cool
stuff we're at 475 followers now on
twitter 514 we might gain them a
hundred-foot twitter followers which
would be nice that's my reason is
talking about Monty um so I don't know I
just really appreciate those guys
they're cool we're gonna read out some
new messages while we move on to I'm
gonna tell the college we need to get a
little giddy up yeah I'm sorry I know
with slasher derailed it down I'm doing
this second sponsor you bailed it I
don't think that's slasher derailed it
lagunas donated $10 says you're five
right got the chainsmokers
play their old stuff at an event that
would be memorable radical bread donate
fifty dollars and said feelsbadman mark
doesn't want to talk about bootcamping
in LPL keep this for you and Kel be done
for mark lagunas then donated $10 and
says it's true they messed up my order
and didn't know they had an eSports team
I have proof I don't know what that was
in reference to lagunas donate another
$10 and said hashtag seafloor low that's
probably about golden Guardians oh yeah
that would be hilarious they messed up
the order and then like you contact
support and they're like what we don't
have any space lagunas donated $10 says
paid for by hunter then another $10 and
said back up the salt trucks darking
says still paying for a great experience
on hotline Lee live I hope for more in
the future and we have a caller wait not
yet we're about dragon man sirs is here
drag a man sir where are you calling
from
I'm calling from Dallas Dallas and
what's going on and house jealous I mean
it's all right it's all so okay I
appraise for Dallas what what do you
want to talk about on the show today
dragon man sirs I wanted to talk about
how best of ones have been one of the
our we'll probably one of the best parts
to review ship of the scene sorry what's
that I want to talk about how best of
ones can be one of the biggest changes
that can help viewership for the scene
best of my sink okay changing from it
changing to it okay so the changes that
have happened okay so you think best of
ones have gone really well yeah okay
so go go on Twitch and will be upset
about the switch no will be very split
yeah I know I've watched your constant
for a while and I know the casters have
been very vocal about how especially the
analyst desk has improved a lot because
with the best-of-three format having two
channels they can review the games as
much as they wanted to or they couldn't
watch the games and figure out their
segments as much and I think the analyst
just has improved a lot out of this but
in general and I really like how that is
improve my leadership of the scene so
it's interesting co-star shows so I
think that's actually something like I
had really even like I knew it like
that's part of the reason that we put
more effort into the analyst desk was
that like there's more bandwidth now but
I hadn't really thought about like why
that would be you know such an
improvement for viewers either because
to me like conversation I'm best at one
always feels like it centers around like
competitiveness how it's not that bad
and how kids bad teams a better chance
and yada yada yada but it is true it's a
lot easier to make a cool segment and
have fun if I'm not having a producer in
my ear like and then this thing happened
and barons soul at 22 minutes things you
know so that's a good point so do you do
you think so is it just the analysts
aesthetes improves the experience the
best ones for you well I think it also
adds to the point where you can actually
watch all of the games instead of having
to like actively choose between which
teams you want to watch for the day and
so you can actually view all of the
games and not have to go back and watch
vods of all the games instead of you
finally react
do you find yourself watching way more
of the best of ones now yeah definitely
I I recently started getting into the
competitive scene more last year and
then I definitely got more into it this
year because I could interact more with
like the stream and viewership yeah yeah
I I think that like maybe even
objectively statistically that best of
ones are so much better for all the
small teams especially because and that
like the community as a whole has a
better understanding of how sorry I'm
hearing an echo somebody else hearing an
echo yeah it's Travis sees he's a mess
okay
he's you're off Travis can you I don't
know
anyways like when you I actually can't
do it I can't do with you Travis you
turn down your speaker a little bit I
didn't hear echo down thank you
yeah I think it's better um so when when
last last year when you
have like these teams that are playing
to 5k concurrent yours obviously
nobody's watching that match so the only
one like the two lower teams are playing
each other now like what's the smallest
viewership you see what's the smallest
concurrent viewership you see for like
any ALCS matches like 80 90 you see a
little under 100 depending on when and
the date is - and like what was before
it
sure so even for the lower teams like
their viewership there is like 10x so
that's way more people that are at least
watching and understanding even the
lower tier matches where like I don't
know it's it's just like more people or
watching these smaller teams they have
they have more of a chance where it's
just nobody cared especially if you were
having new franchise teams come in that
didn't have install bases for for for
fans like it's gonna be so tough for
them to grow I personally I mean I
managed a team for a couple years when
best of ones was the thing got out when
best of threes was the thing and now
like I don't know it's so much easier to
follow with best of one format it's a
lot easier to consume I i I'm a big fan
of best ones but I'm running a team I
definitely was an advocate for and
preferred the idea of best of two
invested three for a competitive
standpoint I imagined the viewership of
like GG eyesores optic vs. TSM TL I mean
echovox first fly quest on the second
stream last year I had like 10k viewers
or something it was like awful so no
there there were literally matches I
would put in our fucking eSports and
chill chat all the time like these guys
are literally at less than 10k
for a fucking LCS match like this is I
was like League is dead this shit is
done so yeah I don't know it's a short
full dragon answers because I think
we're all gonna agree with you I don't
know if if Mark has something else you'd
say but oh the only thing I mean I guess
the only thing is it doesn't feel like
viewership is up ton right like no it's
not this has not been the we dipped a
lot in the past year or so and this has
not been the thing that has corrected it
but I think it's arguable that we might
have been in a worse spot had it not
yeah
viewership is because league is not
succeeding
your your your only stopping the
bleeding to a certain degree but yeah I
think if we were in best of three still
the viewership would be significantly
worse yeah I think my biggest point is
that the best of ones allowed it to
consolidate into one stream and then
that has helped the production quality
increase throughout the year
yeah for sure yeah well they feel like
we credit our matches those feeder
matches were so lame in the past but
dragon masters I feel like we kind of
just agree with you I don't know I got
nothing you're a smart man
dragon man sir was it man sir good man
sir there's multiple that's your in this
court Kelby look I don't I don't see
anything man thank you so much for your
call really appreciate these actually
aren't sunglasses these are just
reflective surfaces I can't see past
let's see there's super sunglasses
actually those are you got those for
looking lips a couple hours ago what am
i watching porn what's on your glasses
right now no this the eye the only thing
I have up on my window is our Skype chat
and then to the right I have Twitter on
the other monitor
they're never gonna sponsor this show
okay let's move on
who's they okay oh that's the joke is
that they're still watching then you
make a non-safe work joke Laguna stereo
$10 don't give sponsors that's not how
this space works they do partnership
deals but they don't do they don't give
like selling ships it was a joke okay
sorry my bad joke hilarious I hate when
I miss Travis's great jokes no foxy
visit us up - Jacqueline Lola Cola gift
us up - dorri been on YouTube
cool us $0.33 500 bits is hotline League
March do it please take my money
real foxy give to the sub - unified
hearts girlish ministry subbed four
months and said whatever happened on the
right BAM tech deal what happened there
I mean it's a great point I mean we've
all been asking it mighty is in the chat
right now mighty where he called from
I'm calling him from sunny Chicago it's
not it Mike
yeah that's unreal nice Mike yeah it's
it is it really sunny because I feel
like it's almost midnight there no it's
not sunny in it and it's not an inch
today so it's hot yeah I was being
ironic Kelby the Mooney Marty what do
you want ironic curse our cast mighty
what do you want to talk about on the
show today I think it's sarcastic I
wanted to just bring up like how roster
volatility has been a huge thing it's a
big part of eSports but it's also been a
part of of leagues you know specifically
and I think franchising is probably
gonna fix some of those issues and how
that kind of reflect because we've been
talking mean any we've been talking a
lot about brands whatever that's
supposed to mean today he'll be loves
talking brands as Kelly's favorite word
see I get kind of exhausted on that word
just because like I don't really know
like I'm not sure exactly like it's like
such a nebulous thing I want to do great
video I mean fucking horrible about this
lady explaining how for Millennials
individuals are the new brands and I
want to kill myself
mark is bringing out terrible videos
he's watch but the truth what's up no no
I mean I mean I just wanted to so like
I'm a big like I watched a lot of
traditional sports like hockey and you
know like football and all that stuff
right and I've noticed that I have like
team that root for there but not really
teams I root for specifically in the LCS
i watch well pretty much every LCS game
but I just like I think I just like
League and I don't really care who wins
I just want to say good game hmm I think
really there's okay you don't have
favorite players well I do have favorite
players but that's kind of the point is
when when players switch teams so much
it sort of kills that like oh he's
facing his old team it's like well he's
been on four teams so like at what point
does that dilute that and I think that's
where I like franchising other
franchises for a lot of reasons but one
specifically is I think it might cut
down on that volatility you can start
like getting into the team's like I like
how this team plays I like how right you
can get into like the team
oh this guy left this team some I'm done
with this team kind of a thing
and you see that a lot less in Jerusalem
sports for a lot of reasons but I think
that's one big one yeah do we think
there is any correlation between player
popularity and how long they've been
with a team because a lot of the most
coincidentally a lot of the most popular
players in na LCS built their popularity
with one team I mean there has to be
some kind of I actually think it might
be like the consistency is so rare
mm-hmm that when a player is on a team
for so long like you know like people
use in fact score esports had a really
cool like sneaky feature um I mean it
was it was but it was a really good
model of like going about how he was
consistent and he's like the one
consistent player on c9 right I think
you guys are going about it the wrong
way though like it's it's you guys are
coming at it backwards like the reason
why these guys are popular is because
they are good and they've got great
personalities which is why it's time
would want to hold them around for a
long time and then and that's why you
see the correlation is that but good
become popular good players also don't
leave teams other teams would also want
to seal them away right yeah but all
those guys like in the old world of
eSports there were like three or four
teams that could just monopolize all the
popular players because why am I gonna
stay on Team Marne when I can go compete
for TSM it's certainly not for Martin by
the way just answer that question yeah
no I was I was just wondering I was just
wondering if like because a player is
with a team for a extended period of
time it enables them to you know build
that narrative out and have you know
stickier fans since I'm sure that helps
I really like the word sticky today yeah
I know I've noticed that it's a good one
on your mind
ah look i stickers I don't know yeah I I
think it's a so franchising I think it
is exciting to me that we saw that
reddit thread that was talking about how
players are under much longer contracts
now that being said long contracts have
never like if a player wants to leave a
team he generally leaves the team if a
team wants the player gone like I don't
know if having longer contracts is going
to actually have player stick to their
team's longer but I do think that it was
super exciting to see all the changes
that occurred between last year and this
year now I think I'm ready to see less
roster movement and for players to start
to kind of solidify like I really like I
think it's really good that bjergsen has
been like a TSM player for this whole
time I think it probably good if Peter
lived out the rest of his career on Team
Liquid like once you start to create
these sort of iconic players that have
such a strong identity towards a team
like sneaky in cloud 9 I think that's
gonna be good long-term and I do think
franchising will hopefully allow for
that aphromoo staying on hundred thieves
would be great I think somehow like I
hunted these Dan after me like the their
brands I think worked really well
together and I think it'd be good if
those guys stick together yeah I mean
that's really what it that's the thing
I'm I think like most excited about with
franchising is to build that sort of
history and have it not be like this
nebulous thing I mean we were losing
teams last right yeah right exactly at
this point if sneaky left c9 like my own
like head experiment it's like okay
where would people go to which team he
went to or they'd be like wow that sucks
80 left seen on but I'm still seeing on
fan right I think teams are getting
there
but I think if we have a lot more
consistency with the roster starting
with the franchising stuff we'll get
there
much quicker and it'll be good for the
league I mean c9 would take a hit there
they're not gonna lose all their fans
for sure but I mean we
we saw this when doublelift went to TSM
like CLG definitely took a little bit of
hit they did include all their fans but
obviously it really sucks especially you
know sneaky is probably the second most
popular player in na LCS or very very
close with Peter for for a second most
popular so by the way it's twitch chat
talking about sneaky joking as if you'd
ever leave for another team I don't
think he'd leave for another team I
think if there's a good chance of sneaky
could retire and just go stream full
time let's say cloud 9 doesn't make
world severe does she keep playing I
don't know that seems like look more
likely I wasn't implying that sneaky was
leaving c9 I was just using that yeah
yeah sometimes I just twitch chat starts
barking and I just like to throw
something at them to get them to shut up
you know yeah I think that team brands
though definitely do benefit
tremendously from I think over time
you're right with franchising the player
contracts will get longer that's all
that's a really one of those big
differences that we see between eSports
and traditional sports is that you know
player when you get signed as a
first-round draft pick in any other
major sport you're signing like three to
your minimum three-year eels usually for
all those guys a lot of them are
significantly longer and yeah three year
deals and eSports are like almost crazy
talk so yeah yeah I agree
yeah I'm looking forward to that that
roster stability being I think it'll be
a really good thing I think I think I
think it'll make a lot of the team like
Oh even though even like we're talking
about like made bottom two teams I think
they're gonna even find their own
supports you know however fast or slow
it is if they're consistent in it maybe
they play like a certain way that's like
might not be optimal but it may be
wouldn't here maybe we're no fans I mean
that's it's also you know something
that's possible yeah
mighty thank you so much for calling and
I really appreciate it yeah thanks guys
love the show thanks dude
to the next caller let's see where were
we an arrow lol resub thank you
biblically gifted us up to Navi in 1995
real foxy gives us up to Saint Pablo we
do have frost grin on the show right now
for Oscar and where you calling from I'm
coming from deep Shanghai how you gon
Travis what is different what is deep
Shanghai deep Shanghai I literally live
in the middle of Shanghai like not on
the outskirts center of Shanghai got you
know if there was a Manhattan kind of
thing yeah I don't know if it's like
Shanghai has now transformed since the
last time I was there until a ball and
you now live in the center anyway what
do you want to talk about on the show
Frost grinning well I heard that you
guys were going back and forth in terms
of like branding and marketing and I
thought that Kelby offered up a lot of
interesting views another one of the
first guys was calling about like the
golden Guardians and their merchandise
and so slasher was talking about Wow
Travis you do have a bad echo working
dude aren't you supposed to be a
professional he doesn't want to wear
fucking headphones or any year so you
have my in ears put in the in ears dude
first grade you were saying anyway I
wanted to get your guys's opinion in
terms of like effort versus value
because it keeps going back to this idea
of like content and branding and how
viewership was down but if you don't
have massive organizations it wasn't
just in the NA LCS it was also in the
lck without SKT being a parent and a
final of their viewership was down the
LPL gets pretty generous because our top
teams are consistently making finals but
I have no doubt that you know if an EDG
Irfan RNG didn't make a final that our
viewership would also see some of a dip
off so I was just kind of curious like
how much do you think the league should
actually be responsible it kind of gave
what I feel was a bit of a cop-out
answer in terms of like buying from
franchise that it's on the brand versus
the league and what kind of like
everything I gave a cop-out answer yes
you did
can we get I gave a witty answer that
got a great reaction from twitch chat
that's my whole point that I do the show
only for that you're a hot take though
the the LPL is fairly unique in that
they
heavily market and brand players but the
audience and the palates aren't
completely different from like a Western
audience you can't take like a Western
hype video and like a sell it to a
Chinese market it's much it's much more
about humanizing the players and almost
like this this boyfriend type of vibe
because a lot of our our audience is
also female but majority of like our
marketing our promotion our video
content you know when the players take
the stage here the girls swoon and when
they come into their at their frontal
interviews you know the girls all get
forward with their cameras all of the
the video and the merchandise marketing
is all them like taking the camera on a
date and like sucking on a lollipop and
like giving the holy Papa way whereas
like yes those times oh yeah you do
there's this great clear love shower
video let me tell you that's the first
time Calvi has ever in his life said I
need to watch more LPL so you're doing a
good job but like probably biggest
brands is sneaky but a lot of that Brown
was built off of his streaming persona
that then the league effectively just
you know took and ran with it there's
never like I don't know mark you tell me
if there's any like sort of segments I
mean it's always like player focus first
like let's talk about these players
let's build them up but do you think
there's any other way that we can help
like these lower end brands that are
just getting shut out because they don't
win like what okay I agree that the
league doesn't do much for the players I
do think that there's one man who does a
lot of content and focuses on all sorts
of players that's this guy right was it
for me what's up no I'm not saying that
he's not a good guy I just want to let's
pull up how many how many years has
Apollo been in the league since the
beginning I think all right how many
Twitter how many Twitter followers my
divinity although has Mark 97,000
alright so I don't I don't know what's
going on Kobe's my but Kobe's mic cut
out so I don't know what's happening
there but anyway yeah let's get back to
Frost's top topic so I think you know
what you said was interesting about how
they
I once again I don't watch anything
that's not gameplay same problem I have
with overwatch Lee but like if they
really are like really kind of embedding
the content teams with them and like
getting a good look at who that person
is I feel like at the times that the
riot na has done that it's often been
like a written form or you've seen like
Drive and it's always telling like a
very motivational story and it's usually
very touching but it's also in some ways
like not like indicative of who that
person is on on a day-to-day basis I
guess yeah I will say that it does feel
like oftentimes I like I really like the
right content I think it is unparalleled
almost like only recently I do I think
teams have started hitting the level
that the na LCS guys can pull off but
and quite frankly that's partially
because of budgets but so do you think
this is a pallet issue because the thing
is is mark saying that they don't have
like LPL does a lot of kind of throwaway
content that's fairly low effort in
terms of like variety shows like we'll
take the players and they'll make them
like try to knock over bottles and it's
just like weird goofy shit so is this
simply that a Western audience doesn't
find value in like nine players and put
them in like a pie-eating cost issue is
saying the biggest issue is it's really
hard to get access to these players I
mean even even right struggles with it
the amount of times that I've heard good
idea like Yahoo we always had good ideas
I'm like well we should do a show where
like players watch their own games and
then they're all eating pizza I'm just
kind of hanging out and talking about it
there's no way that could show could
have ever existed as we can get access
to it and riot doesn't have much of an
easier time doing that either like it's
just really hard I think to pull off a
lot of this content and I think they get
pushed back not only from the players
who want to scram but also probably from
a teams who say I have the ability to
produce to spend four hours producing a
piece of content around my player I
could let Riot do that or I could do or
myself and sell it as a sponsorship to
HyperX or somebody else and so I think
it's more of a timing thing and that's
probably why they don't do it I also do
think that Riot is a little obsessed
with like the traditional sports world
and that's why
you probably see much more of this like
this like build-up inspirational so I
kind of put the players on top of a
pedal stool and like well it's tough
rather than like the fun and goofy kind
of stuff because the tone is always
going to be very much like traditional
American sports content and that's
that's kind of the glorifying the
players is very different then we're
gonna have the player lick a lollipop
and then hand it out to some whatever
the crazy kind of softcore porn stuff
that's happening over at LCL I don't
think it's a great video I understand I
think it's different chicken or the egg
did LPL grow female fans through their
their marketing or did they have a lot
of female fans and then market towards
them it's really hard to say cuz I just
wasn't in here on like the ground floor
but I've been to the NA LCS arena I've
been to the LPL Arena I've been to the
lck Arena events and there's
predominantly much more female fans at
the actual arena's we actually break it
down in terms of like female percentage
fans that are you know playing or
watching online and everything it's much
closer to you know females vastly
outweigh the female fans but actually in
venue and for a lot of these marketing
needs and the LPL Lisa it's I mean the
most pretty pretty close to like 40 60
the most women we've ever had in the NA
LCS to do is during all-stars when all
of them flew from China to support their
team and when it was like an LP Olivet
yeah essentially would you say that more
females tend to show up to LPL and lck
than na LCS ORS are pretty comparable
across them as far as like the
percentage of the audience that's female
I was saying you know and lck or LPL
more than lck or I've only been to the
lck studio maybe three times and not
their new studio but like when I did
Cass backup and it was still you know
there was many more females but
especially in the LPL it is either like
a 50/50 spread or it is a 60/40 spread
towards females males well if we've
learned anything recently as well as
that sneaky is is defining the fact that
you don't need to have a female audience
to pander to them because his latest
cosplay stuff has been top-notch gotten
a lot of engagement
gruffly do you think that a lot of the I
mean you kind of are asking this
question to us but I'm kind of trying to
picture like let's Kurt let's say that
I'm not saying that you're saying about
all the LPL continents super sexualized
but you said it's kind of like boyfriend
content where they're kind of like it's
similar to how I've seen like Asian pop
stars kind of targeted towards female
fans like do you think that a lot of
that content would fly here like imagine
like an ALCS created a piece of content
around Sneaky in that cosplay and he's
like eating pizza seductively like could
could they even put that on the NA LCS
broadcast or is that just too weird for
like an American audience
I had Express you can even see it in the
LPL English like we don't run a lot of
this content even though we have access
to it you know sometimes we'll show some
of the the variety shows or some of the
games but there's a lot that you're not
seeing that it's happening on the
Chinese broadcast agrees oh we're going
with the assumption that that's not
something that the Western audience is
actually interested in and then the
content that we specifically make when
we do like our Aussie and our rookie
interview pieces that's very much with a
Western palate in mind but I absolutely
think that we need to kind of explore
different branding opportunities for
these teams and really give them a
unique identity it's like sneaky has
such a short ID I have no doubt that you
could sell him sexualizing pizza and
like the what's your fans would find
that hilarious and so I yeah but I don't
know what's really but would it create
too much of a scandal right like would
there be two would it be too weird for
like I know the fans would like it
separating that like a burrito thing
with medias and sneaky when they were
doing like the honorable things their
window I mean it's probably closest you
guys have come yeah I think I think I
understand like why riot doesn't want to
like do a lot of that stuff because they
like I think like the light drivers were
saying that kind of professional high
quality American sports vibe they have
going on right now but it would be nice
if they kind of had a different
Department that's just like let's just
make sure that the fans would find funny
and engaging I mean I've always thought
that that's what all eSports comm should
be like I don't they spend a bunch of my
flying out Spence Karen's brother to do
a long article that wall very
well-written
I'm sure got very little mud with people
watching it whereas if you'd spent that
money helping stinky build a new cosplay
like that I think that video would
probably be way more successful but
these are also like the players that
don't need the assistance I'm talking
about you know like the middle of the
pack the medium tier teams does that so
does that work in LPL like do the re are
there are a lot of fans for the bottom
for the golden Guardians level LPL teams
when you look like holistically a you
know like the Chinese broadcast
viewership because English broadcast
viewership and Chinese product broadcast
viewership are very different even in
terms of where the spikes are so like
for LPL English viewership if we have a
bottom tier team like a vici gaming or
t.o.p which are respectively last place
like they went to in seventeen this
entire split our viewership would
actually bump because they have big
brand name players like Mara and
easyhoon so we have proof and it's hard
to say again chicken versus egg if that
viewership spike comes because easyhoon
Ammar an already had established brands
before coming to bottom tier teams and
if they you know if they didn't or tried
to build the career on these teams that
you wouldn't get the same viewership
bump but like there's a very strong
correlation between like player
popularity and viewership at least for
our tiny demographic how does the deal
solve the the access issue of getting
access to these players they just force
it probably in terms of like getting
interviews no I just mean like it you
know let's say they wanted to do a funny
video with sneaky they have to get
access to them sponsorship is much more
heavy-handed like Edward gaming and team
w/e have had to put off scrims before
because they had sponsorship obligations
and the organization usually stands
behind the sponsorship obligations but
these are you know it's hard to say
whether these are you know content
creation obligations or like going to a
fundraising event or something like that
yeah I mean to to those two points I
mean after the games all the players I'm
pretty sure maybe not all but like the
players get pulled into the features
room and they give like interviews about
like stay on their team currently and
this kind of stuff I mean -
medically you could redirect some of
that time into making funny shit really
quickly like if it is as simple as I
don't even know just a sure pass yeah
like a really quick but I don't fucking
know dude like just anything any quick
video like you could probably switch
that time to then and not be an extra
resource drain but you are losing out on
you are giving something up to do that
of course yeah and then to her to frost
point about like does it help chicken or
the egg
I mean the thing is if people cycle and
there's turnover like arrow is on the
third place team if you he's a fucking
goofy ass motherfucker if you like built
up that brand of being like the one the
goofiest dudes in the scene and then he
ends up on optic on a ninth place team
at least like people will know every
like way more about him and will be more
hopefully at that point like you you
only watched it because he was popular
but nowadays not you already know that
about it yeah so I think maybe it's like
more of a long-term investment where
it's not like you create content around
an eighth-place team seven plays six
plays team and hope people watch it but
like when those players do end up cycled
through a little bit you have more
knowledge of other players yeah hey
thank you so much for calling in I
really appreciate it yeah cheers
everyone guys thanks for ask wait that's
a really really interesting conversation
yeah okay we want to get through these
next two colors Yorick okay well how
about one sentence just hot we're as
like a hot potato use grab grab them
really quickly thank you so much to
grill ish menace oh they already at that
stylish Caesar real foxy gifted to
sports law dr. Manhattan gifted to
Spanish rice lol and drink house subbed
Snuffy the seal really quickly what do
you want to talk about and where you
from from Ann Arbor Michigan
another Michigan yes I just wanted to
quickly touch on the topic of how the
lck production over the years has been
vastly higher quality compared to the
world and how this could have impacted
viewership and passion for the game and
all that stuff of rolls around it most
noticeably duction from the finals this
past week all right kill me guy knows
Kelly tell you everything I could tell
we got an original OGN fan you used your
sense Kelby oh I remember like even like
season 3 season 4 back like been like
the English OGN stream and only Gilly
and cave yours max those videos they had
like pregame and stuff like they were
just such high quality and stuff it was
just it was more enjoyable to seeing cuz
it like budget because they have like
better sponsors over there yes not the I
know it's good I know it's good look
Kelby say your shit cuz Kelly Kelly this
is like the Kelby you're giving him like
the circle jerk right now I'm already
talking I'm talking through this man
right now yeah just go great way to
muffle Kelby huh it's so true though man
the the prime the golden era of League
of Legends was like the first two years
that Monty and I were on the OGN
broadcast and those finals and the
storylines in the production and I
remember talking to writers at the time
I'm like ya know I think we do it better
and I was like you are the most biased
dudes I've ever talked to it's fucking
hilarious like it's it's just such a
it's so much better people who actually
can get into lck and og in just have a
superior spectating experience yeah
right when people actually do the chants
of tune and it's definitely a quality of
gameplay A+ production and it just yeah
I mean it's also it's also kind of
harder to build a connection when you
don't speak the same language those
players never stream like it's easier to
get access and build a connection to
people you know you have more access to
I feel like it's also important like a
big like personality of like Papa smithy
I feel like it's really that he's like
whether they do it like last year they
made them both on TV and OGN that like
people because people were only turning
into like og
your ships cuz they only want to see him
they didn't care about the other stream
but with the rise of your ship on both
those streams and I feel like he's a
pretty big and Orton part they're only
watch gameplay from other regions so I
don't know thanks so much for calling
inside the seal there's like you that
make us so we don't have to pay kill me
Shh
alright last guy pilfer mark he might be
dead we'll see oh oh pts Emory fan resub
he said so glad to continue supporting
this amazing content love to have the og
cast on right now I'm really looking
forward to getting hue lights because of
this show and a friend and I have
started a new small talk show continue
to preach great content thank you I wish
Phillips he would spend this money
Vaughn squirrel said we want frost hot
takes well we got you got him opt SM fan
sent four dollars won't be able to get
on but I understand best ones is better
for franchising but I value quality
competition and more games didn't have
better analysis of which teams and
players are good best of threes are
better for the fans in longer and learn
to appreciate it
blabla color give to the substitute dad
race and we're all caught up nobody else
better sub or donate or send bits or
anything like that because then that'd
be awful but I wouldn't be caught up any
more I certainly hope that doesn't
happen I think you could see my eyes you
gave up yeah music I I was he's there
you just can't hear me
so when I called for him like 30 minutes
ago he probably just didn't hear me and
then when I was in there he kept saying
hello and like both of our things are
green but he can't hear me so okay I
don't know his is this courts fucked up
sorry being when I really next time wish
you could be on remind me next time yeah
naked homeless man resub he said unlike
opt a'somethin i did by Phillips Hughes
on sale and Giroux ski resub for four
months that's the show mark what do you
want to say here at the end
I don't know man it's the offseason I'm
fucking bored maybe I can I can I say
that throughout this entire show I don't
know I guess Brittany was probably
watching at the start but she's just
been watching offline TV content this
entire time it's some good content yeah
she also watched Travis's interview with
Bonnie I'm telling you man offline TV
some good content yeah why did she watch
this show she normally does but offline
TV pulled her in she was watching
pokiman or poke him in Pokemon oh and
Lily the whole time I don't know anyway
sorry to interrupt keep going know that
I was you didn't interrupt it I was just
sitting here like what do I say because
I have not much on the table right now
so yeah he was just trying to figure out
what to say cuz he doesn't have much
going on and then you started talking
about how great offline content is Calvi
so that was really sensitive of you
Kelby what you don't need to be like I
don't know show I'm glad to hear
Brittany likes the content well look I
know hey I hate that content mark
alright I think it's awful and also
means I did a good job I if Travis hates
your content you probably understand I
can't stand that online TV thing oh this
is this is engaging content that people
who don't know what I'm about can enjoy
Margaret we're here for you
Kelby you have anything else to say
besides insulting offensive things about
Kelly's or Mark's life yeah I actually
wanted to give a shout out if possible
and I wanted to give a shout out to
Larry King Larry King as you know Travis
I mean you probably well what do you
think about Larry King Travis cuz you're
in like you know journalism in ER
because he was ancient when the world
was young yeah
he's he's probably like maybe the most
you think it's fair to say is the most
famous interviewer of like all-time or
no I mean it's either me or him so yeah
but I I just wanted to say like it's
like what he's contributed to the space
and the number of like famous people
that he's interviewed is so great and I
remember he he did an online version of
his show as well and about two years ago
he had a he had it then like you know
up-and-coming group on you may have
heard of them called the chainsmokers
and in a segment during his online show
he asked them questions that were
submitted by fans via Twitter and the
very first question that Larry King
asked the chainsmokers on his online
broadcast was one submitted by me via
Twitter so I have to give a shout out to
Larry King for having the chainsmokers
on and asking my question thank you I
thought you were somehow gonna wrap that
back around your shouting yourself out
for asking a great question
I thought for sure you're going are you
so blocked by them on on Twitter I don't
know why they would unblock me
I mean assign more to promote them fam
pressure from from hotline ly twitch
chat just besides all thousand people
besides almond by HP our sponsor should
be Phillips hue the chainsmokers and
sarcasm those are the three biggest
things you get on the show what about
irony what kind of irony dramatic irony
is not very much of that we released
versions as a show on iTunes and Google
Play for those of you that want to check
it out
the vaad goes up on YouTube and some
clips some highlights some good moments
and if you are watching the vaad and you
want to watch it live it airs generally
Monday night 8 p.m. Pacific Time on
twitch.tv slash sotl Travis which
eventually I should get changed on TV /
Travis cafard but I've been lazy I'm
going to Seattle tomorrow thanks
everyone for watching my content check
out at AO
mato underscore on twitter you got your
leftovers from barbecue still yeah
actually Peter might have eaten them he
said he was gonna come by and he said he
asked if I'd eaten yet I said I did but
there's some leftovers in the fridge and
he asked me if he could go through my
trash afterwards as well so that way I'd
have happened I don't know
double the spirit animal is a raccoon
that's about I think that's true
thanks so much to mark and Kelby thanks
so much for everyone watching this has
been a hot line League episode 22